## Command Format

A general format for radare commands is as follows:

    [.][times][cmd][~grep][@[@iter]addr!size][|>pipe] ;

Commands are identified by a single case-sensitive character [a-zA-Z]. To repeatedly execute a command, prefix the command with a number:

    px    # run px
    3px   # run px 3 times

The `!` prefix is used to execute a command in shell context. If a single exclamation mark is used, commands will be sent to the system() hook defined in currently loaded I/O plugin. This is used, for example, by the ptrace I/O plugin, which accepts debugger commands from radare interface.

A few examples:

    ds                    ; call the debugger's 'step' command
    px 200 @ esp          ; show 200 hex bytes at esp
    pc > file.c           ; dump buffer as a C byte array to file.c
    wx 90 @@ sym.*        ; write a nop on every symbol
    pd 2000 | grep eax    ; grep opcodes that use the 'eax' register
    px 20 ; pd 3 ; px 40  ; multiple commands in a single line

The `@` character is used to specify a temporary offset at which the command to its left will be executed. The original seek position in a file is then restored. For example, `pd 5 @ 0x100000fce` to disassemble 5 instructions at address 0x100000fce.

The `~` character enables internal grep-like function used to filter output of any command. For example:

    pd 20~call            ; disassemble 20 instructions and grep output for 'call'

Additionally, you can either grep for columns or rows:

    pd 20~call:0          ; get first row
    pd 20~call:1          ; get second row
    pd 20~call[0]         ; get first column
    pd 20~call[1]         ; get second column

Or even combine them:

    pd 20~call:0[0]       ; grep the first column of the first row matching 'call'

This internal grep function is a key feature for scripting radare, because it can be used to iterate over a list of offsets or data generated by disassembler, ranges, or any other command. Refer to the macros section (iterators) for more information.

Most of the commands offer autocompletion support using `<TAB>` key, for example `s`eek or `f`lags commands. It offers autocompletion using the all possible values, taking flagnames in this case. Note, that it's possible to see the history of the commands
using `!~...` command - it offers a visual mode to scroll through the radare2 command history.
